documentation/OTRP_information_en.md, before:

<img src="logo/OTRP_logo.png" width="600">  
This logo was made by [128Na](https://twitter.com/128na) .  

[日本語はこちら](OTRP_v13_information.md)  

# What is OTRP?
This is a modified version of simutrans that some features are added to.  
- Road vehicles take full advantage of two lanes. You can build and enjoy a 4-lane highway.
- For road, "citycars do not enter" and "avoid becoming cityroad" features are available.
- Regional mass build and land raise/lower tools are available. These tools are extremely useful for massive development.

You should try OTRP because...
- Easy to start. Just 4 steps. See the Download and Install section.
- You can convert your save data to the format of simutrans standard whenever you want.
- UI is carefully designed so that you can use OTRP in the exactly same way as simutrans standard. Explorer wonderful OTRP features one by one!

The thread in Simutrans International Forum: https://forum.simutrans.com/index.php?topic=16659.0  
Twitter hash tag :  [#OTRPatch](https://twitter.com/hashtag/OTRPatch?src=hash)  

As of version 20, OTRP is based on simutrans standard nightly r8646.

# Download
In addition to the executable binary, the ribi-arrow pak is required. Please download it from https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B_rSte9xAhLDanhta1ZsSVcwdzg and put it in your pakset.  

You can download the OTRP executable binary from the links below. **(2019 January 2nd, updated to ver 20.)**  
windows（GDI）: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-WinGDI-OTRPv20.exe/  
mac: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-mac-OTRPv20.zip/    
Linux: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-linux-OTRPv20.zip/  
source code: https://github.com/teamhimeh/simutrans/tree/OTRP-distribute  

There is no special makeobj for OTRP. Please one of the simutrans standard.

# Install
1. Download ribi-arrow and put it into your pakset.
1. In menuconf.tab in the pakset folder, assign an appropriate key to simple_tool[37]. For example, in menuconf.tab, add `simple_tool[37]=,:` and you can use RibiArrow by using the colon key.
1. Download the OTRP executable file and put it in the directory where simutrans.exe already exists.
1. Execute the file that you downloaded.
Please make sure not to overwrite your sve file of simutrans standard.

# How to use
Even if you do not understand what is described below, you can play OTRP as the simutrans standard. Please explorer the features one by one :)
## Road Configuration
![fig1](images/fig1.png)  
Select a road icon **with holding a Ctrl key**, then you can configure the road.

[overtaking mode]
- oneway: Road is oneway and vehicles can overtake others under the relaxed condition.
- halt mode: The behavior is same as oneway, except that the vehicle can load passenger on passing lane.
- twoway: Vehicles behaves as in simutrans standard.
- only loading convoy: Vehicles overtake only a stopping vehicle.
- prohibited: All overtaking is prohibited.
- inverted: Lane is reversed.
----
[others]
- avoid becoming cityroad: When this option is enabled, the road never becomes a cityroad.
- citycars do not enter: Citycars are prohibited to enter this road.

### Road configuration check tool
With holding the colon key, connected directions of roads can be checked with the arrow. This feature is available also through the display settings. If some options are enabled on the road, the color changes as follows:
- avoid becoming citycar enabled -> Green
- citycars do not enter enabled -> Magenda
- Both are enabled -> Orange

## lane affinity signs
As the amount of traffic increases, traffic jam at a junction like the image below can be often seen. This is due to lane crossing. A car inside crosses the outside lane to go to exit.  
![fig3](images/fig3.png)  

OTRP provides a sign to instruct cars to stay in an appropriate lane. An oneway sign on an oneway road works as a lane affinity sign. Lane affinity is valid until the next intersection, whose coordinate is displayed in the road sign window.
<img src="images/fig7.png" width="526">  

When "Left" is enabled, cars that will go left at the next intersection stay in the left lane. When "Right" is enabled, cars that will go right stay in the right lane.  
Lane change can be failed when the traffic is heavy.

For citycars, lane affinity signs are valid only when the distance between the sign and the next intersection is less than  citycar_max_look_forward.

## Traffic lights
<img src="images/fig8.png" width="600">  
If you put two traffic signs like the image above in the conventional simutrans, vehicles on the north-south road cannot turn right because of the traffic lights. The phase offset can realize this, but using it is not appropriate for this case.  
In OTRP, you can specify the direction from which vehicles can enter the tile. For example, the settings in the image above enables vehicles to turn right at the intersection properly.

## etc  
- The income/cost message can be turned off in the display settings or by assigning a key to simple_tool[38].
- To realize smooth traffic in an intersection, vehicles reserve tiles in the intersection. With b key, you can check and cancel the reservation of road.
- Use "make halt public" tool with the shift key, and the halt belongs to the current activated player. With the control key, this operation can be done with no cost.
- If you use the land raise/lower tool with ctrl key, the height of selected area are set to the height of the original coordinate. (Implemented by shingoushori)
- In the city building construction window, multiple kinds of city buildings can be chosen at once. City buildings are randomly chosen from the selected items and are constructed in the designated area.
- If you use the wayobj construction tool with ctrl key, you can specify the interval of wayobj placement.
- If you use the elevated way construction tool with ctrl key, you can specify the height offset. This is convenient when you build elevated way at very high altitude.
- The overlaying warning of addon names is disabled in OTRP. The warning will be shown when simutrans is launched with **-showoverlay** option or is launched as a server.
- In OTRP, a longblocksignal reserves all tiles that are checked. In other words, a longblocksignal reserves exactly till the next signal, exceeding the end of the route. This is a prior implementation of a feature that is discussed in the simutrans international forum.
- with `-snapshot x,y,z,f` option, simutrans takes a snapshot and immediately quits. x, y, and z are the central coordinate, and f is zoom factor which takes a value from 0 to 9.

# Parameters of OTRP
Most of these are stored in the game.
- **citycar_max_look_forward** : define the distance for which citycars determine their route.
- **citycar_route_weight_crowded**, **citycar_route_weight_vacant**, **citycar_route_weight_speed** : parameters for calculating citycars' route.
- **advance_to_end** : When this is true, trains always advance to the end of the platform. When false, trains stops at designated position as long as the platform covers the entire convoy. Default is true, that is same as simutrans standard.

# Compatibility
## Compatibility of Add-ons
You can use all add-ons for simutrans standard on OTRP. There is no OTRP-specialized add-ons.
## Compatibility of the save data
- Save data of simutrans standard can be loaded on OTRP.
- **When you load the data of OTRP v12 or v13, please press the button "This is a data of OTRP v12 or v13." before the loading.**  
- When you launch OTRP v14 **for the first time**, please **delete autosave.sve** to prevent a crash.
- No compatibility for ex-OTRP.
- If you press "Readable by standard" button, the game is saved so that it is readable by simutrans standard. In this mode, please be ware that **OTRP specific data is lost.**

# License
OTRP derives from simutrans standard, so OTRP follows [Artistic License](https://github.com/aburch/simutrans/blob/master/simutrans/license.txt). Re-distribution of OTRP (including modified version) is permitted under the following conditions.
- Please follow and respect the original license of simutrans standard.
- Please notify Himeshi where the OTRP is distributed. twitter: [@himeshi_hob](https://twitter.com/himeshi_hob)

# Contact Me
If you have any questions or request, please feel free to ask me through the simutrans international forum or [@himeshi_hob](https://twitter.com/himeshi_hob) in Twitter. Every issue reports and your opinions are greatly appreciated.

Commit message:

Add description of merge_halt_tool

documentation/OTRP_information_en.md, after:

<img src="logo/OTRP_logo.png" width="600">  
This logo was made by [128Na](https://twitter.com/128na) .  

[日本語はこちら](OTRP_v13_information.md)  

# What is OTRP?
This is a modified version of simutrans that some features are added to.  
- Road vehicles take full advantage of two lanes. You can build and enjoy a 4-lane highway.
- For road, "citycars do not enter" and "avoid becoming cityroad" features are available.
- Regional mass build and land raise/lower tools are available. These tools are extremely useful for massive development.

You should try OTRP because...
- Easy to start. Just 4 steps. See the Download and Install section.
- You can convert your save data to the format of simutrans standard whenever you want.
- UI is carefully designed so that you can use OTRP in the exactly same way as simutrans standard. Explorer wonderful OTRP features one by one!

The thread in Simutrans International Forum: https://forum.simutrans.com/index.php?topic=16659.0  
Twitter hash tag :  [#OTRPatch](https://twitter.com/hashtag/OTRPatch?src=hash)  

As of version 20, OTRP is based on simutrans standard nightly r8646.

# Download
In addition to the executable binary, the ribi-arrow pak is required. Please download it from https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B_rSte9xAhLDanhta1ZsSVcwdzg and put it in your pakset.  

You can download the OTRP executable binary from the links below. **(2019 January 2nd, updated to ver 20.)**  
windows（GDI）: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-WinGDI-OTRPv20.exe/  
mac: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-mac-OTRPv20.zip/    
Linux: https://osdn.net/projects/otrp/downloads/70477/sim-linux-OTRPv20.zip/  
source code: https://github.com/teamhimeh/simutrans/tree/OTRP-distribute  

There is no special makeobj for OTRP. Please one of the simutrans standard.

# Install
1. Download ribi-arrow and put it into your pakset.
1. In menuconf.tab in the pakset folder, assign an appropriate key to simple_tool[37]. For example, in menuconf.tab, add `simple_tool[37]=,:` and you can use RibiArrow by using the colon key.
1. Download the OTRP executable file and put it in the directory where simutrans.exe already exists.
1. Execute the file that you downloaded.
Please make sure not to overwrite your sve file of simutrans standard.

# How to use
Even if you do not understand what is described below, you can play OTRP as the simutrans standard. Please explorer the features one by one :)
## Road Configuration
![fig1](images/fig1.png)  
Select a road icon **with holding a Ctrl key**, then you can configure the road.

[overtaking mode]
- oneway: Road is oneway and vehicles can overtake others under the relaxed condition.
- halt mode: The behavior is same as oneway, except that the vehicle can load passenger on passing lane.
- twoway: Vehicles behaves as in simutrans standard.
- only loading convoy: Vehicles overtake only a stopping vehicle.
- prohibited: All overtaking is prohibited.
- inverted: Lane is reversed.
----
[others]
- avoid becoming cityroad: When this option is enabled, the road never becomes a cityroad.
- citycars do not enter: Citycars are prohibited to enter this road.

### Road configuration check tool
With holding the colon key, connected directions of roads can be checked with the arrow. This feature is available also through the display settings. If some options are enabled on the road, the color changes as follows:
- avoid becoming citycar enabled -> Green
- citycars do not enter enabled -> Magenda
- Both are enabled -> Orange

## lane affinity signs
As the amount of traffic increases, traffic jam at a junction like the image below can be often seen. This is due to lane crossing. A car inside crosses the outside lane to go to exit.  
![fig3](images/fig3.png)  

OTRP provides a sign to instruct cars to stay in an appropriate lane. An oneway sign on an oneway road works as a lane affinity sign. Lane affinity is valid until the next intersection, whose coordinate is displayed in the road sign window.
<img src="images/fig7.png" width="526">  

When "Left" is enabled, cars that will go left at the next intersection stay in the left lane. When "Right" is enabled, cars that will go right stay in the right lane.  
Lane change can be failed when the traffic is heavy.

For citycars, lane affinity signs are valid only when the distance between the sign and the next intersection is less than  citycar_max_look_forward.

## Traffic lights
<img src="images/fig8.png" width="600">  
If you put two traffic signs like the image above in the conventional simutrans, vehicles on the north-south road cannot turn right because of the traffic lights. The phase offset can realize this, but using it is not appropriate for this case.  
In OTRP, you can specify the direction from which vehicles can enter the tile. For example, the settings in the image above enables vehicles to turn right at the intersection properly.

## etc  
- The income/cost message can be turned off in the display settings or by assigning a key to simple_tool[38].
- To realize smooth traffic in an intersection, vehicles reserve tiles in the intersection. With b key, you can check and cancel the reservation of road.
- Use "make halt public" tool with the shift key, and the halt belongs to the current activated player. With the control key, this operation can be done with no cost.
- If you use the land raise/lower tool with ctrl key, the height of selected area are set to the height of the original coordinate. (Implemented by shingoushori)
- In the city building construction window, multiple kinds of city buildings can be chosen at once. City buildings are randomly chosen from the selected items and are constructed in the designated area.
- If you use the wayobj construction tool with ctrl key, you can specify the interval of wayobj placement.
- If you use the elevated way construction tool with ctrl key, you can specify the height offset. This is convenient when you build elevated way at very high altitude.
- The overlaying warning of addon names is disabled in OTRP. The warning will be shown when simutrans is launched with **-showoverlay** option or is launched as a server.
- In OTRP, a longblocksignal reserves all tiles that are checked. In other words, a longblocksignal reserves exactly till the next signal, exceeding the end of the route. This is a prior implementation of a feature that is discussed in the simutrans international forum.
- with `-snapshot x,y,z,f` option, simutrans takes a snapshot and immediately quits. x, y, and z are the central coordinate, and f is zoom factor which takes a value from 0 to 9.
- general_tool[41] is merge_halt_tool. If you select two stations with this tool, the stations are merged into one same station. The cost of this operation depends on the distance between two stations. (Implemented by HyperSim)

# Parameters of OTRP
Most of these are stored in the game.
- **citycar_max_look_forward** : define the distance for which citycars determine their route.
- **citycar_route_weight_crowded**, **citycar_route_weight_vacant**, **citycar_route_weight_speed** : parameters for calculating citycars' route.
- **advance_to_end** : When this is true, trains always advance to the end of the platform. When false, trains stops at designated position as long as the platform covers the entire convoy. Default is true, that is same as simutrans standard.

# Compatibility
## Compatibility of Add-ons
You can use all add-ons for simutrans standard on OTRP. There is no OTRP-specialized add-ons.
## Compatibility of the save data
- Save data of simutrans standard can be loaded on OTRP.
- **When you load the data of OTRP v12 or v13, please press the button "This is a data of OTRP v12 or v13." before the loading.**  
- When you launch OTRP v14 **for the first time**, please **delete autosave.sve** to prevent a crash.
- No compatibility for ex-OTRP.
- If you press "Readable by standard" button, the game is saved so that it is readable by simutrans standard. In this mode, please be ware that **OTRP specific data is lost.**

# License
OTRP derives from simutrans standard, so OTRP follows [Artistic License](https://github.com/aburch/simutrans/blob/master/simutrans/license.txt). Re-distribution of OTRP (including modified version) is permitted under the following conditions.
- Please follow and respect the original license of simutrans standard.
- Please notify Himeshi where the OTRP is distributed. twitter: [@himeshi_hob](https://twitter.com/himeshi_hob)

# Contact Me
If you have any questions or request, please feel free to ask me through the simutrans international forum or [@himeshi_hob](https://twitter.com/himeshi_hob) in Twitter. Every issue reports and your opinions are greatly appreciated.
